>> Kyle Simpson: There are lots
of different ways that
people over the years have
chosen to describe Closure.
Lots of different definitions given for
it.
Closure actually comes to
us from lambda calculus.
The only thing I know about lambda
calculus is that it's called lambda
calculus.
I don't know anything else about it.
I took a bunch of cs and
a bunch of math classes.
Still don't have the foggiest
clue what lambda calculus is.
All I know is the Wikipedia page says that
Closure comes to us from lambda calculus.
So I'm not gonna be particularly useful at
giving you that hyper-academic definition
for this.
Rather I thought it would be much more
appropriate for me to give you a super
practical, pragmatic observational
definition for Closure.
Specifically, this does not match with
what an academic, they might say,
but well, actually,
that stuff doesn't matter.
What matters is how do we observe what
Closure is, as far as I'm concerned.
So, this is an observational definition.
And by the way if you've been struggling
to figure out on those job interviews, how
do I answer the question what is Closure,
you might wanna use this definition.
Closure is when a function remembers its
lexical scope even when the function is
executed outside of that lexical scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: Closure is the ability
of a function to remember and
continue to access the variables
surrounding it in lexical scopes even
if you take that function.
Send it elsewhere, pass it elsewhere or
return it or something, and
it executes in an entirely
different scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: This is not a new concept
that you've never used in your code.
It is a virtual certainty,
if you have been writing JavaScript for
longer than about seven calendar days,
you have written Closure in your code.
It's just a virtual certainty.
You might just not have
known what to call it.
So, I'm not really introducing
some brand new concept,
this is a little bit more like Neo
in the the first Matrix movie.
When he's shown the Matrix for the first
time, he's not seeing a brand new thing.
He's seeing something that
was always there, and
just couldn't recognize it before.
And that's what we're about to do is help
you recognize where Closure already exists
in all your own programs.
Here's the foo bar baz kind of example.
I have a baz function on the inside and
that baz function references
that bar variable.
You'll notice the variable on line
5 references the one from line 2.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, if I were to call
baz right away on line 7, we would
describe the ability for it to access that
variables plain old normal lexical scope.
Exactly what we've learned up
to this point in the course.
But we do something a little
different with baz now,
we actually pass baz like a call back
to some other utility called bam.
And on line 12, when we execute baz,
can we all agree that baz is now being
executed in an entirely different
scope than where it was declared?
>> Kyle Simpson: And theoretically, the
scope that it was declared in should have
gone away and been garbage
collected by this point, right?
But it didn't.
Baz still had access to the bar variable,
magically.
Well actually not magically, it's Closure.
It said that baz, the function baz,
closes over the variable bar,
because it makes access to a variable
in an outer lexical scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's as simple as that.
When a function references a variable
outside of itself, and then that function
goes to some other scope and executes and
it still has access, that's Closure.
That's the most pragmatic,
simplified observational definition
I've ever been able to come up with for
what Closure is.
Of course, passing a function as
a call back like that is not the only
way to do so.
You can also return functions.
That's another way of
transporting functions around.
Here we have the same thing.
An inner function that references bar, we
return it and on line 10 even though that
looks a little strange to have
these two parentheses sets.
The first parentheses set executes foo,
which gets that function back.
And then a microsecond later,
we have another set of parentheses
that execute the returned function.
>> Kyle Simpson: So in that gap of time,
right in between those two sets
of parentheses on line 10.
In that gap, we would think normally,
or at least conceptually,
that the scope of foo had gone away,
cuz foo has finished running.
And the bar variable should
have been garbage collected.
>> Kyle Simpson: But it didn't.
Why didn't it?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz we returned the scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, but why?
>> Speaker 3: Closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: Closure, because that
inner function was closed over that
variable which is going to
preserve that variable and
not allow it to be garbage collected.
That's what Closure is.
The ability of a function to remember and
continue to access those variables
even when it gets transported and
executed elsewhere.
Let's look at some more familiar examples.
How many of you have ever
used a setTimeout before or
some sort of timer function?
Good chance your function
that was your timer hook
probably referenced
variables outside of itself.
Did you ever stop to think how does that
function continue to access that variable
even when it runs a lot longer in
the future after this scope should have
gone away?
And it's being run by the JavaScript
engine which is of an entirely
different scope.
How does that happen?
>> Students: Closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, that function
closes over the variable bar.
Anybody ever done a click handler before?
It closes over the variable bar,
same reasoning.
You've already been using
Closure in all of your programs.
All I'm doing is helping you
give a definition to it.
Now it is important,
not just from an academic sake.
It is important to be able to
distinguish what is Closure and
what is not because sometimes
Closure will work against us.
Sometimes Closure will do different
things than what we expect.
So just like with everything else,
it's important to really know it and
not just sort of accidentally it,
which what we all have been doing.
We have just been accidentally
taking advantage of Closure and
now I want you to precisely know what
it is and why you use a particular way.
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's two different
functions closed over the same variable.
It's not like there's a snapshot,
they're literally closed over
the exact same variable.
When one of them updates it, the other
one is updating the exact same thing.
>> Kyle Simpson: Closure is as
many scopes deep as you make it.
We've got Closure over different scopes,
variables closed over in different scopes,
doesn't matter.
Closure preserves the access
to those variables for
as long as those functions exist.
If you have one scope and
there's a thousand different Closures
of the variables of that scope.
And 999 of those functions go away,
they get garbage collected.
But there's one function hanging out
somewhere in an event handler that had
Closure of those variables.
Those variables are not
gonna get garbage collected.
As soon as that last function goes away,
that last Closure goes away, and
now that scope can get garbage collected.
If you pay close attention, that means you
can accidentally prevent stuff from being
garbage collected,
if you create a Closure over it.
So a few minutes ago, when I said,
I try to avoid unintended Closure wherever
possible by making my functions
at the outer most level.
The reason is,
if I make a function 15 levels deep inside
of it, how many scopes is it closed over?
Potentially over all 14
of its parent scopes.
But if I don't need it all the way deep
and I put it all the way at the outside.
It's not gonna close over any of those
internal ones, so I have less of a chance
of it accidentally closing over
stuff I don't want it to close over.
>> Speaker 5: It's interesting,
so the inner scope can look up the outer
scope but not the other way around.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep,
that's lexical scope,
that's got nothing to do with Closure,
that's just lexical scope.
When we have a reference in level
14 to a variable from a level 11,
it can go that way.
But if you have a reference here, and
you're trying to reference a variable that
isn't declared until an inner scope,
here it's just gonna be a reference error.
There is no such thing as that variable.